1982, this is Terry Anderson. We are interviewing
General Kennedy. You were born May 16, 1904, in
Leggett, Texas. Let's start out by talking a
little bit about your background. Could you tell
me about your parents?
Both my parents were born in Texas. Only one of my
grandparents came in about the time of the Civil
War, just after the Civil War. I grew up between
Polk County, Texas and Jefferson County, Texas.
Polk County at that time was the big thicket, in
other words, the country background. I went away
to sea when I was 16 and went to Europe and up east and
to South America and Mexico. No kidding, why? Oh, I
thought it would be an adventure. Did your family
have the money to send you off to? No, I worked on
trapped ships. Oh, you did? Yeah, and came back and
finished high school and then went on to M.M. from
there. And so, now why did you decide to leave when
you were 16 years old? Most people don't leave home
at that age. Frankly, I don't think this is too
pertinent to what you have in mind, but since you
asked the question, I'll answer it. Owing to an
illness in my family in Beaumont, I spent a year in
high school in Galveston living with my aunt and
working in the afternoons, but spending my spare
time between the gymnasium and the library in
YMCA. I read Jack London's books and got the idea of
adventure. Now, mind you, there's a lesson for
youngsters in this. It doesn't belong in your
tape. It sure does. We want to know about it. I
worked by, which means in the harbor, on the ship,
Messboy, until we sailed. And we took on the crew, a
good deal of it, just before sailing. Well, the
night that we were first at sea, a man tried to kill
me. I mean, serious matter. He chased me with a fire
axe, and as it happened, a man saw him and just cold
cocked him as we turned the corner. And they put the
man in irons, of course. It turns out he was a drug
addict. And they kept him in the pokey until we got
to Norfolk. But as I lay in my bunk that night, I said
to myself, This is adventure, and I don't like it.
It was a little bit too much adventure. Yes,
exactly. And that is how I happen now. What did your
parents think of you leaving home at sixteen? My
father actually came down to the ship to see me off.
talked to a large brother of his that he'd turned up
on the ship about me, but my parents didn't tell me
what not to do. If I did something which was
patently wrong, they made it clear to me and
punished me for it, but they didn't, see, for
example, my wife thought for a long time that I ran
away to sea. I didn't run away to sea at all. I just
went, that's all. I wasn't running away from
anything. As it happened, you see, on that first
ship, I expected to come back and go back to high
school in the fall. But it turned out we broke down,
and that was another unpleasant adventure.
Nevertheless, when I got back into the East Coast,
it was too late to go back to school, so I just caught
another ship and went to South America. upshot of
all this, I came back and finished high school. But
as you might suspect, that left me in a relatively
peculiar position with my peers because back
then, people from East Texas, hell, some of them
never left the county. Let's go elsewhere. And I
had some experiences which were different.
Anyway, I don't know that that makes any, I don't
think it has any bearing on what we're talking
about. I want to know about the background of each
former student who became a general, and that's
why I'm asking you these questions. All right,
then I'll proceed. I worked my way through A&M.
Before we get to A&M, I'd like to know a little bit
about this cruise. Now when you went to South
America and when you went to Europe, what did you
learn? What kind of impact did that have on you? Oh,
I think it's obvious enough. You learn that people
are different. You learn that just because people
live a certain way and think a certain way down in
Polk County,
You know that from your own travels. And a certain,
I should say, a certain,
call it cynicism? I don't know what you'd call it.
You've seen
men get killed. Yeah. And that makes a difference.
You know the reasons for it and that sort of thing.
Mm-hm. Can you tell me a little bit about your
mother and your father? My mother died when I was
young and I just barely in the vaguest way remember
her. She was the daughter of a physician who, like
my other grandfather, was embittered by the Civil
War and came back, came from where he was down to
Texas and finished up in that small town. It isn't
even there anymore. Anyway, she died and that was
partially the reason why I spent my summers with my
grandmother, her mother, who lived up there, far
back in the country. My stepmother was a
wonderfully good woman and couldn't have been a
better mother to me. My father at the time I suppose
we were talking about,
was he sold oil well supplies and helped set up a
business in Beaumont, Texas that, oh hell, in
recent years they just sold out of interest in it
that he'd aired to us. But his background was this,
his father was a Presbyterian minister,
embittered by the Civil War, and came in, old
Indianola, which was later washed away.
But my mother, I mean my grandmother, who had come
down in a wagon train from Virginia just before the
Civil War, and all the men went back, you see.
Anyway, they married, and my father was born in
Cthulhu. when it was nothing, not much, still
isn't. Now, this might bear on it, I don't know, but
my grandfather and grandmother were absolutely
intent that he should get an education and were
reasonably sure he couldn't get it in Texas. So
they sent him to a prep school in Tennessee, an old
prep school, And then on to University of
Virginia, where he was kicked out for
ungentlemanly conduct. A man called him a damn
Texas Longhorn. He knocked him off the upstairs
porch for that. And then he found out that my
grandparents had been literally starving
themselves to ensure his education. By that time,
my grandfather was the chaplain. of the prison at
Huntsville. My father finished his degree at
Huntsville. The college is still there as a matter
of fact. And then he taught school down in that big
thicket place where he met my mother and went
through some permutations and ended up as a
businessman and had a pretty good one. I say a
pretty good one, he was a real good one. He loved
people and was a natural extrovert and a good
athlete. Things that I know was. But he, I think,
enjoyed his life. Now, what led into that was
you're asking me whether they had objected in any
way. It never occurred to me that they would
object. It was generally conceded this was my
business. And I think that's right.
So your father then wasn't the domineering type
father or the authoritarian type? No, he was very,
very explicit. When there was something I
couldn't do, by God, I knew it. The only athletic
activity I ever engaged in was boxing. And I did
that because, hell, I had a set of boxing gloves
from the time I could walk, I guess. In any case,
after I came back, from the sea. I boxed at the YMCA
there in Beaumont, and at that time Beaumont was a
hell-bent sports town. And a fellow classmate of
mine, they had some pretty good boxers, and I
worked out with them too. And I got it in my head that
I would be a, you know, a preliminary. You get ten
bucks, man, that's a hell of a lot of money. But he
said, you absolutely won't do that. And that was
it. In retrospect, he knew exactly what he was
talking about. I didn't. But it was no question in
my mind. Since he said I couldn't do it, I couldn't
do it. That was the way he was. But those things
which were my decisions, he let me make them and let
them die by them, too. Did he want you to further
your education? He was very interested in it. But
you see, he kept in the background some of what he
and my grandmother, the one, his mother, thought
about me, and thought about, for example, this
business of mine going to sea. I didn't even know
until my father died, and I was clearing up his
affairs, and he had saved the letters that they had
exchanged. It was in the night. And I'd sat there
quiet because I didn't know that they felt as
deeply about this as they did. Well, that's good.
They looked at it as my decision, but they
absolutely deplored it, of course. But I didn't
know that. Yeah. But I don't think this is
important. Now, let's talk about your education.
Oh, well. I want to talk, before we get to Texas A&M,
can you tell me a little bit about your education in
high school about that time? Well,
gosh, let's see if I can think of anything very
consequential. Well, where'd you go to high
school? I finished high school in Vermont. Okay,
okay. What were your favorite topics? What kind of
classes did you like?
Well, I suppose I'll have a confession to make on
that. I looked on high school
as something that you got through. And I carried
this over to A&M to a degree. What the object is,
find out what the teacher wants and give it to them.
That's the way you make good grades. That's what
the thing's all about. Education is something you
do yourself. The teacher is a person who, if you're
lucky, will help you do it. But that's neither here
nor there. The object in the teacher-scholar
relationship for me in high school was find out
what they want and let them have it. In other words,
those interests that I had were not too much
related to school. So in other words, you didn't
really care much for school. No, the system at A&M
was so much more disciplined, so much more
demanding, you couldn't get away with that. Oh, I
see. I made good grades because I still played that
tune, but you had to do the work. In high school, if
that was true, I didn't know it, I didn't feel it.
Oh, hell, I don't think there's anything that...
If there is, I can't remember. Oh, shoot.
No, I can't think of anything. Okay, let's then
talk about your favorite. Let's talk about going
to A&M. Why did you decide on A&M? Frankly, because
of the money. And also because when I finished high
school, I wrote to MIT and Caltech. I knew I wanted
to be an engineer. Because I figured out, look,
I had dug ditches for a living. And by that time, and
I knew damn well there was a better way to make a
living. So MIT came back and said they didn't
really think that I probably could qualify.
California didn't even answer. And by that time, I
knew what the what the financial aspects of this
were, and that's why I went there now. I knew it was a
good engineering school, and I'm sure it still is.
So you had made up your mind that you wanted to be an
engineer? Oh yes, yes. Look, for example, let me,
this is Picayune, I think, but in the process of
working in the engine room of ships, I found out
what you had to do to qualify to be an engineer on a
ship. But if you came out of an engineering school
with B.S. in engineering, Jesus Christ, you could
work three months, pass the test, and be one. But it
took you years and years of working in the engine
room before you could even take the examination.
That's why it made sense to me to go get an
engineering degree
But you see, I worked on construction jobs. That's
the way I made my expenses at A&M. I was lucky. I made
enough in the summers to pay my way. Not with any
leftover, I might add. I worked at A&M. What type of
jobs did you do at A&M, the construction work?
Well, no, there wasn't any. No, what you'd call
fallout for work, and it was two bits an hour, it
didn't make a difference what you did. The first
few years I worked mostly cutting grass, trimming
grass, whatever. And then somebody found out that
I knew how to weld, so I signed on at the shops in ag
engineering. I didn't do much work, to tell you the
truth, because there wasn't much work to do, but it
was still 25 cents an hour. It didn't make any
difference what you did. But this was for pocket
money. I made enough, fortunately, in the summers
to carry my other expenses. Did your father help
pay for tuition? No, he didn't. Not that I didn't
ask him to. I think he probably would have if I'd
asked him to, but I didn't want to ask him to. My last
year, since I had many other things to do other than
just what I had been doing, I borrowed a couple
hundred dollars from my aunt. Maidenhead, the one
that my father's sister, who I'd gone to school
with, lived with in Galveston. We were close. But
prior to that time, I'd made enough to cover.
I don't think any of this is too germane, but if you
wanted to— What about—can you tell me about your
core outfit?
went through an artillery. Now this I think is
pertinent, and this I think can possibly make a
contribution.
The ROTC system that I went through with was
extremely beneficial to my experience in the
military, very much so. I want to distinguish
between the OTC living system and the MS&T, what
you were taught
in the lectures in the department, they were
valueless. Quite without value. The military
science, you mean? Military science and tactics
was quite without value. I'm not under any
illusion about that. It had no educational
content. It was something you did because you had
to. And something the tactical officers did
because they had to. But the ROT system that I lived
in was something else. This taught, for example,
first thing you have to do is learn how to do as
you're told, to take orders. Sure. Then as you
gradually acquire authority, you also acquire
the responsibility that goes with it. Now, this is
a must in all forms of the military, obviously, but
frequently it takes a long, long time for man to
learn that. The ROTC system that I went through
compressed that and taught it to you in four years.
It also taught you that the essence of a military
operation, I don't care what it is, infantry,
cavalry, air force, is to get a group of men to do a
thing, to attain a common goal. But, and this is
very important, it taught you that that group of
men was made up of individuals, each of whom was
different. There are no such thing as clones in
human beings except the twin. There are not many of
those. This is what the ROTC system that I went
through taught me. Now, this was not a common of all
ROTC systems.
Although the military academy system was
superior in many ways, it was not common to that
system. Okay, would you like to compare the Texas
A&M system to the academy system, the West Point
system? I can't do that for now because I don't even
know what the system is. Back then, I mean... Oh,
back then, yes, of course. As I said, the
multi-academy system was superior in some ways.
But in the simple way that I'm talking about, it was
not. It took the military academy graduate much
longer to acquire the things which the Texas A&M
graduate had to acquire by living in it.
But I want to make this plain. that in later years,
when you're in the business of selecting people
you know absolutely nothing about, and you have no
other way to go, you'll take the military academy
graduate. Why? Because he's been through
something that is pretty goddamn tough. You know
that much about him. He may be an utter bust, but you
know that much about him. So that's why They do
stand out in the military, and why? Frequently
they get plus jobs because they should.
But the system that I am admiring, and the old
system, and I don't even know whether it still
pertains to Texas A&M. I'm talking about what I
know. I know it did not pertain in, for example, it
does not pertain, for example, in the University
of Texas ROTC system. It is not there, and there's
no use talking about it. It isn't. The OTC system at
the University of Texas that I observed when I was
up there after retirement is totally different.
Maybe it has some merits, but I've not had the one
I'm talking about. I'm
not saying that the Texas
A&M College, now the university, is the ideal
system. It isn't. I think it's proper to enter a
criticism of it, since I have it complimented so
highly, at least I think I have.
This is not a criticism of the institution.
There's not a criticism of the faculty when I'm
about to voice. This is the style of the student
body at the time I attended. Mind you, It was quite
homogeneous then. The style of the student body
probably was the genesis of the Aggie joke. The
Aggie joke didn't exist when I was there, but it
does now. It was to use vulgarisms, cliches, bad
grammar, and be proud of it.
This was a handicap.
It was a handicap with a number of engineers, at
least, who got out of it and didn't know they had.
It did not handicap them in the preliminary work
of, say, a bull gang to build a bridge or something
of that sort. But when it came time to explain a more
complex project, it was a handicap.
was, in my opinion, the criticism of the
institution at the time I went there, but not the
institution as such. It was a student body. And if
you want me to explain it, I can't. I'm just saying
it existed. This, for example, in later years, you
have to put people in place to do things. If you have
a job, you don't have enough material, you don't
have enough people, you don't have enough money,
you're going to put a Texas A&M man, a youngster in
charge of it, Georgia Tech, Iowa, an old land grant
school guy, you don't put MIT, Yale, Stanford,
because they're not good at that kind of thing.
when they come right out. On the other hand, if you
have a complex project to put out on paper, to lay it
out in a persuasive way, you don't put that A&M man
on it. You do put the other guy on it. Am I making
myself clear? I'm trying to explain this
particular handicap. I think when you compliment
something, you ought to balance it. That's what
I'm trying to do. Now,
let's proceed. I didn't enter the service by
intent.
I was going to South America to build beautiful
power plants. I knew what I wanted to do, and I knew
how to go about it. You wanted to be an engineer
first. Yes, of course, and a construction
engineer. Because it is good work. But I'd worked
in construction camps enough to know that it's
good work, and it pays well. But when you work so,
you don't have anybody to talk to. All right. I was
walking back home from work. back from the mess
hall one evening with another cop of a mechanical
engineering graduate in the early spring, late
summer, late winter, talking about what we were
going to do after we finished. And he said he was
going to the flying school. And I said, what flying
school? And he told me, and it turns out they're
running a flying school for free. down here in San
Antonio. Well, I didn't know that. And, you know,
it's hard to get around in South America. And I
thought it would be pretty handy to learn how to
fly. And so I checked into it and went to the flying
school. Now, I liked the people. I liked to fly the
airplanes. But more than anything else, it was
something The people I enjoyed being with,
and I don't regret it in any sense of the word, but I
don't want to convey the idea that I went through
the ROTC system at A&M with the idea of going in the
military. I didn't at all. This was a
happenstance.
And I've enjoyed my service career. It fit what I
like to do. But you didn't plan on this. You didn't
plan on a military career. No, I didn't. I took the
commission because it was available. When I
finished the flying school, I knew I liked it. I
liked the people I was with. Hell, some of my best
friends, the classmates from flying school, and
the only long, old-time friends I guess I've got.
People that, I don't know, shared a common
interest. It was fun. And that's how I got involved
in the military. Can you tell me a little bit about
the flying school? What type? It was down in San
Antone, and you graduated there in 1929. What type
of airplanes were you trained in? Well, at Brooks,
Brooks was two sections, primary and basic. Yeah.
And the advanced school was at Kelly. Yeah. And
primary, we had a primary trainer, and basic we had
a DH-4, a DH airplane, and at Kelly we had an
old-fashioned B-4 and B-5 bomber. Those don't
mean anything nowadays. They're sticking wire
airplanes, all of them. The
school was, of course, run to provide the Air Corps
with pilots. Yes. But it also provided the
airlines with pilots. You didn't have to come into
the service, you see. Really? No. You were offered
the chance if you wanted to. You did take a reserve
commission. I already had one in the artillery,
but I just transferred to the Air Corps. And since
the regular commission was offered to graduates,
college graduates, without examination, I just
took it. See, I figured at the time I'd
spend maybe another year flying airplanes to get
that much more experience before I went on to South
America. It turned out, as I said, I liked the
people, I liked the work, I liked the airplanes,
and stayed in. Simple. So once you graduated from
flight school, then you decided not to go down to
South America. You decided to stay... I still was,
you might say I was ambivalent about it at the time.
I finished flight school. I would say In
retrospect, yes, I still intended to do that. But I
thought that this much more flying experience
would be helpful. It wasn't a bad decision because
the flight school taught you to fly all right, no
doubt of that. And all my classmates didn't come
under the service, not at all. One, for example, an
old friend up at San Angelo is a geophysicist. And
he'd been around the world a good deal, too,
working on various geophysical operations. And
the exploration chief that he was associated with
tried to get him to leave the flying school to come
take over a job in Venezuela, for example. And at
the time, I remember it so well, we were on DHs, and
it was the time when the incomers were being washed
out meeting the board. Well, he went to meet the
board to get out to go do this thing along with these
guys who were meeting the board who didn't want to
get out. Well, he came back looking kind of funny
and I asked him and he said, no, they're not going to
let me out. Well, that suited him right down to the
ground because he did want to go on through the
flying school. He liked it. And it gave him an out
with the guy that was trying to get him anyway when
he When flying school was over, he did leave and
went on down to South America and did a job and came
back and did something here and so forth. That was
the kind of thing. Now, when the war came, of
course, he came back, got in uniform. Sure. In
fact, he and I worked together for a while. But
before we get too far ahead, I'd like you to talk a
little bit about some of the things about the Corps
cadets. What did you think about the hazing? Look,
I told you that I'd been around the world a good
deal. I
don't know a good gentlemanly word to express what
I thought about it. Nevertheless, I was kicked out
one year for that. You were? This is a long story,
and I'll shorten it up. It turned out that the
youngster who made a case against me didn't
get his facts straight. So when I met the board, the
disciplinary board at NN, I didn't have to lie. I
didn't have to because they didn't ask me the right
questions. Nevertheless, they knew I was guilty
of something, and I was. And so President was then
Bazell, and when they eliminated me, this was a
part and parcel of a pretty big uproar at the time. A
whole goddamn troop of cavalrymen got kicked out
at the same time I was in the artillery, as I told
you. And I and one other from the artillery was
kicked out. Anyway, Bazell called me in and asked
me if I wanted to go up to what was then a part of A&M,
Arlington, a two-year college at the time.
Anyway, I went up there and finished out the year.
This delayed me graduating from A&M, but on the
other hand, gave me a chance to take some courses I
wanted to take that weren't in the normal
curriculum. To get back to your question, I
can't express it in, I was contemptuous of it,
let's put it that way. It is a piss poor way to run a
railroad. It
perpetuated the puerility and young men are all
too prone to that anyhow, so I don't want to say any
more about it. Okay, okay. It was a go-ahead. What
did you like and what did you dislike about being in
the Corps?
You know, I never gave that any thought. I still
haven't, apparently, because I don't seem to be
able to answer your question. This is a thing you
did. You did it in order to reach your goal. I didn't
think about whether I liked it or disliked it.
Wait a minute. I can say what I liked about it.
At the time, I went through We were horse drawn
artillery. And we could go to the stables over the
weekend and get a horse and ride in the
countryside, free his hair. That was great. My
roommate, my last year roommate, was a member of
the pistol team. And we could go. Of course, he had a
pistol that he shot with that was different. And
draw ammunition. and go out in the country and
shoot targets, or rabbits, if we wanted to.
The work, the academic work, with a few
exceptions, was a challenge. And I personally
like challenges. I like that. To ask me what I
didn't like about it, oh, Howard Soldier.
That
style, I didn't like that. There was no way to say
you didn't like it or act as though you didn't like
it. But I want to be clear about this. My English
prof, one year assigned and one I managed to get
into his class, was an Oxford graduate. with
Laurels in English, there was nothing wrong with
the faculty. There was nothing the faculty could
do about this.
I didn't like that. I
liked being a battery commander in my senior year.
It was a responsible job, and any responsible job
is a gratifying job.
I don't mean by that that I think I was popular. I
don't think I was. In fact, I think I was probably
pretty generally disliked because I was
different. And goddammit, I had to be. I was older.
As you can tell from my age when I graduated, I was
older than my contemporaries and hadn't been
around more. Much of what they were interested in,
I thought, was pretty childish. I don't want to say
any more about this because I'm afraid I'm
sounding too critical.
Well, I have another question. You became general
officer. In what way do you think A&M or the Corps of
Cadets helped you in becoming a position of that
responsibility?
I have to be explicit. And in the way I told you
about, in the understanding that there are no
duplicates in human beings, we're dealing with
equipment which has to be duplicate. Every part
has to be the same. It allowed me to avoid the common
misunderstanding in the military that men are
that way too. They're not. A&M helped me with that,
in fact, probably taught me this, but certainly
much more than I learned in the construction
business, for example. I think I learned that at
A&M, and I think it was very helpful. Also, in the
early years of your service, engineering is is
probably the best type of education, academic.
That's why the academies are basically
engineering schools. As time goes on, that is no
longer true. Technology is a given. You have to
understand it, but you don't have to deal with it
intimately.
In my observation, There comes a time in your
service when perhaps you might have been better
trained in law. Later on, there's a time when
perhaps you might have been better trained in,
say, international relationships. There's
never a time when history is inappropriate.
History must,
because it is the explanation of forces which you
must deal with in your later years. In fact, in your
years as a general officer. But those things which
a general officer most often is required to deal
with, you don't learn in school.
Let me talk about two men who are on your list who I
think exemplify the qualities that I am going to
try to describe. One of them is Al Ludeke. Do you
know him? Yes, I've interviewed him. He's in and
out of A&M. Al is a very talented man. He has proved
it in many pursuits. The other one is Bernie
Schriever, who's in Washington. Now, both these
men have something that I don't have, so I can I can
single them out better to illustrate what I'm
talking about. There comes a time when you're
required to solve problems to oversimplify the
political and the administrative function. You
solve them by reason of knowing what this force
wants and this force wants and what this force
wants and what you might approximate to get the job
done that goddammit you ought to get done. Now, you
don't learn this in school. Neither, I mean, both
Al and Bernie are good engineers, but that isn't
what caused them to be successful. It's this
quality that I don't believe I can describe to you,
that both of them had, and if you haven't already,
you will talk to them,
this ability.
Now, I want to point out that just the background
and the quality doesn't ensure success. I want to
point out the obvious that so many men overlook.
The quality of luck. The business of time and place
and luck. You can't overlook that. Hell, I know
lots of better men than I am. I never got to be
generals. Some of them, unfortunately, blame
themselves for it, and they couldn't be wronger.
And you might keep that in mind for yourself. I
don't give a damn what you're doing. Luck is going
to enter into it. Which one is more important, the
individual's own characteristics and training
or luck? Oh, obviously it's characteristics
because you can't do anything about luck.
I think that's pretty obvious. Okay, well let's go
back now to, you graduated from flying school, you
became a second lieutenant in the Army Air Corps in
1929, and then your first duty station, was that at
the Air Corps Technical School? Oh no, no, Dodd
Field, right across the way. Okay. And Dodd and
Book's Field, observation. And what were you
doing there? normal second lieutenant duties. I
was assistant operations and assistant
engineering and that sort of thing. I had to do
other, back then you did everything. But your
primary duties were, I guess, operations and
engineering. And how long were you there? Oh, I was
at Dodd,
I guess about a year. And then went to Chanute and
came back Wait a minute, we moved to Brooks. We
formed a group at Brooks. Brooks changed the flag.